# Project Two - eCommerce Data Generator, Cleaner, and Analysis
## Contributors: Hom, Kandaswamy, Pena

This project consists of two phases. Phase 1 deals with generating approximately 15,000 mock E-Commerce orders, along with approximately 5% of bad data, and saving it to a .csv file. Phase 2 deals with taking a separate E-Commerce dataset, processing the data with Spark, and discovering trends based on given market questions. Both phases are completed using Python, with the data processing done using PySpark. Git and GitHub are used for version control management.

Each directory is a seperate application. First run the data generator, and it will save an output file to the HDFS. 
Analyze the data stored on the HDFS with the data cleaner and analysis app, ensuring to setup the appropriate .env file.


# Project 2 Requirements

In this project, the Cohort will be divided into 5 teams.

-   Each team will be tasked with the analysis of a large dataset (10-15
    thousand records) using our E-Commerce data structure.

-   Data should be processed and cleaned using PySpark. 

-   A Power BI report should be created and visualizations shown answering
    specific analysis questions (found below).

-   All findings should be presented in a slide deck. All team members must
    participate in the presentation.

-   The presentation will be held Friday, 01/24/2025

The dataset to be analyzed will also be generated by each team, and
swapped with other teams to find trends.

## The project timeline process

1)  By the End of the Day of Friday, 01/17/2025, Each team should have produced a
    data generator.

-   This generator should output a .csv file with 10-15 thousand records

-   The generator should produce data that matches the schema below

-   The data should have rogue records (slightly altered data) which
    makes up less than 5% of the total data

    -   This can be done programmatically, or manually

2)  By end of day Thursday, 01/23/2025, each team should be complete
    with their analysis of the dataset they received (see Data Analysis
    Questions below).

3)  By Friday, 01/24/2025, presentation should be complete and practiced,
    ready to present.

## Data Analysis Questions

-   What is the top selling category of items? Per country?

-   How does the popularity of products change throughout the year? Per
    country?

-   Which locations see the highest traffic of sales?

-   What times have the highest traffic of sales? Per country?